# DreamCandies

Script is in 'dreamcandies.ipynb'

## Process:
After reading the specifications, I came up with the solution that the customer ids from the customer_sample.csv could be used to identify and extract the relevant rows from customer.csv as well as invoice.csv, and the invoice ids of the extracted rows from invoice.csv could be used to extract from invoice_item.csv. I then researched efficient ways to read and write csvs. Pandas is a popular choice, but it seemed that the csv module was faster (https://medium.com/casual-inference/the-most-time-efficient-ways-to-import-csv-data-in-python-cc159b44063d). In terms of searching through the data, the best we can do for unsorted data is O(n) by going line by line. If the data was sorted, we could use binary search for O(logn) time complexity. However, we would have to store all the data at once in a dataframe or break it into chunks, which would increase the runtime. If the data was stored in a database, querying would be faster. Initially, I thought of storing the customer and invoice ids in lists but realized sets would be faster with O(1) lookups when searching through the data. I also added more specific comments in the code.

## Update:
(This update is after the Friday deadline, but I already submitted a working solution on time.) In 'dreamcandies2.ipynb', I added a solution using binary search in the second cell. Without having to store all of the data, we can get the size of each file in bytes and use readline() to get to the right position. However, this solution currently doesn't account for duplicates (and the data must be sorted by the first column, which doesn't seem to be the case for customer.csv). Also, I timed the entire extraction process. For the solution going line by line that I already submitted, it seemed relatively fast (~7s). I used mock data (that I created with datamaker.ipynb) that matched the specificed number of entries in the pdf. Moreover, using a set instead of a list to store ids was definitely more efficient; using a list just for the customer ids increased the runtime to ~40s. In addition, I added the option to add custom file names from the terminal or via input and added a dreamcandies.py file. It may be worth it to examine pandas and dask to see their runtimes for myself.
